Document new dashboard logs functionality and capabilities (#462)
powersync-ja/powersync-docs: maintenance-ops/monitoring-and-alerting.mdx

Access instance logs through the [PowerSync Dashboard](https://dashboard.powersync.com/). Select your project and instance and go to the **Logs** view:

<Note>

>   Log search is intended for ad-hoc investigation, not persistent monitoring or alerting. Repeated searches over long time ranges can place significant load on our log infrastructure, and we may apply rate limits where sustained heavy usage occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Log search is intended for ad-hoc investigation, not persistent monitoring or alerting. We may apply rate limits where sustained heavy usage occurs.
```

You can manage logs with the following options:

> * **Log Type**: Switch between **API logs** (Service) and **Replication logs**.

Reviewer: Are replication logs not also produced by the Service? Kobie and I actually also just spoke about "API logs" being a bit of a very broad name, though it does seem to have some technical accuracy - i.e. it looks like you only get access to the diagnostics API when the API container runs. This definition in our docs makes sense: "The API container handles streaming sync connections, as well as any other API calls.". Maybe we can say "API logs (sync connection and other API calls)". @rkistner keen to hear your thoughts.

* **Log Levels**: Show or hide `Info`, `Error`, `Warn`, and `Debug` entries.
* **Time Range**: Limit results to a relative window (last 15 minutes, last hour, etc.) or a custom range. The available window depends on your plan's retention period.
* **Sort Order**: Sort by newest or oldest first.
* **Display Options**: Show metadata pills on each entry, show stack traces for errors, and tail logs in real time.

### Search and Filter Logs

The **Search** input above the log list accepts free-text terms and structured `alias:value` filters. Type a query and the results update as you type. Applied filters appear as removable chips below the input when you collapse it.

#### Free-Text Search

> Type bare words to match anywhere in the log line. Matching is case-insensitive, and each word matches independently:

Reviewer: We should clarify: if metadata is not shown, will the search still match on metadata text?

```
checkpoint stream
```

Wrap a phrase in double quotes to match the exact sequence:

```
"sync stream complete"
```

#### Field Filters

> Use `alias:value` to filter on a structured field. Repeating an alias matches any of the listed values (OR within a field, AND across fields):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `alias:value` to filter on a structured field. Repeating an alias matches any of the listed values (i.e. they match as OR; different aliases match as AND in the query):
```

| Alias     | Field          | Description                                              |
| --------- | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `user`    | `user_id`      | The authenticated user ID for the sync session.          |
| `client`  | `client_id`    | The client device ID.                                    |
| `request` | `rid`          | The request ID. Matches a started or complete entry.     |
| `error`   | `error_code`   | A specific PSYNC error code (see [Error Codes](/debugging/error-codes)). |
| `reason`  | `close_reason` | Why the sync session closed.                             |

For Replication logs:

| Alias | Field             | Description                                                                  |
| ----- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `lag` | `replication_lag` | Replication lag in seconds. Used with a numeric comparison (see below). |

#### Numeric Comparisons

The `lag` filter accepts `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`, and `=`:

```
lag:>=5
```

Only one numeric comparison is allowed per field. Combining `lag:>5 lag:<10` is rejected.

> #### Unknown Fields

Reviewer: Maybe we should rather call this "Filtering on other Metadata Fields" and then explain it like:

The "Add filter" dropdown lists common fields shared across most log types. But log entries can contain many additional fields depending on the service — you can filter on any of them using `alias:value` syntax directly in the search bar. For example...
